Add new troubleshooting page: Enable debug logging (for EDOT Collector) (#2230)
elastic/docs-content: troubleshoot/ingest/opentelemetry/edot-collector/enable-debug-logging.md

---
navigation_title: Enable debug logging
description: Learn how to enable debug logging for the EDOT Collector in supported environments.
applies_to:
  stack:
  serverless:
    observability:
  product:
    edot_collector: ga
products:
  - id: cloud-serverless
  - id: observability
  - id: edot-collector
---

# Enable debug logging

You can enable debug logging in the Elastic Distributions of OpenTelemetry (EDOT) Collector by setting the `--log-level=debug` flag. This is useful when troubleshooting startup issues or configuration problems.

This guide shows how to enable debug logging in different environments.

## Standalone EDOT Collector

If you're running the EDOT Collector directly, add the flag to your command:

```bash

> edot-collector --config=/path/to/otel-collector-config.yaml --log-level=debug

Reviewer: Dumb question. So this is `edot-collector` because I'm running that collector directly. L53 mentions the "EDOT collector" but then uses `otel-collector` in the example. Is that correct?

Reviewer: There's some switching between EDOT collector and OTel collector in this doc which is confusing to me. But maybe a more experienced user will understand the differences.

Reviewer 2: That's kind of OK, but better if we can make it either more agnostic or more edot-specific, like `edot-collector-config.yaml`. In any case, if a default config file exists, let's go with it.

---
navigation_title: Enable debug logging
description: Learn how to enable debug logging for the EDOT Collector in supported environments.
applies_to:
  stack:
  serverless:
    observability:
  product:
    edot_collector: ga
products:
  - id: cloud-serverless
  - id: observability
  - id: edot-collector
---

# Enable debug logging

You can enable debug-level logging in the Elastic Distributions of OpenTelemetry (EDOT) Collector by either modifying the configuration file or passing a runtime override. This is useful when troubleshooting startup issues or configuration problems.

This guide shows how to enable debug logging in different environments.

## Standalone EDOT Collector

If you're running the EDOT Collector directly, you can choose between two approaches:

* [Configuration file](#configuration-file) - to persist debug logging across restarts
* [Temporary override: runtime flag](#temporary-override-runtime-flag) - for temporary debugging or quick tests

Both approaches increase log verbosity and help surface misconfigurations.

### Configuration file

> Add the following section to your EDOT Collector configuration file (typically `otel-collector-config.yaml`):

Reviewer 3: The Kibana Otel onboarding generate/change to the `otel.yml` filename:

```suggestion
Add the following section to your EDOT Collector configuration file (typically `otel.yml`):
```

```yaml
service:
  telemetry:
    logs:
      level: debug
```

This method works across all deployment environments.

### Temporary override: runtime flag

Pass the log level as a runtime argument using the `--set` flag:

```bash
otelcol --set=service.telemetry.logs.level=debug
```

This applies debug-level logging without modifying your configuration file.

## Kubernetes (Helm deployment)

> If you're deploying the EDOT Collector using the Elastic Helm charts, enable debug logging by adding the configuration directly in your values.yaml file:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you're deploying the EDOT Collector using the OpenTelemetry Helm charts, enable debug logging by adding the configuration directly in your values.yaml file:
```

```yaml
config:
  service:
    telemetry:
      logs:
        level: debug
```

> Alternatively, use a CLI override when installing or upgrading the Helm release:
> 
> ```bash
> helm upgrade --install my-collector/otel-collector \
>   --set config.service.telemetry.logs.level=debug
> ```

Reviewer 3: This command is highly coupled with the underlying Helm Chart, it won't work for every OpenTelemetry Helm Chart. What do you think about using the main OpenTelemetry Collector Helm Cart as example command?

```suggestion
Alternatively, use a CLI override when installing or upgrading the [OpenTelemetry Collector Helm Chart](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-helm-charts/tree/main/charts/opentelemetry-collector) release:

```bash
helm upgrade my-opentelemetry-collector open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector --set mode=daemonset --set image.repository="docker.elastic.co/elastic-agent/elastic-otel-collector" --set image.tag="9.1.0" --set config.service.telemetry.logs.level=debug
```
```

Author: I like your suggestion, thanks!
